We're making progress and we're now able to render some text through our web component.
Now still a lot of the logic is missing,
for example when we hover over this, we get no event listeners that would do anything but we're getting
there step by step.
Let's now add such event listeners to see how we can quickly add more logic to this component which
we then can easily reuse by reusing our custom selector, our custom.html
tag. We want to listen to when we hover over that tooltip icon and then we want to show a
tooltip. For this,
I will simply add an event listener.
This is a normal DOM element and therefore we can call an event listener and we can listen to the built-in
mouseenter event which is fired when the mouseenters this span in this case because I'm attaching
it to that tooltip icon span.
Then I want to execute a function and for this, I will create a new method which is simply a function
inside of a class and I will add this to this class.
Now I will name this method
showToolTip.
Now I'm starting with an underscore here, not because it's required but this is really a convention indicating
that this is a method
I only want a call from inside that class.
Now Javascript is a programming language that doesn't know the concept of private and public properties
and methods and therefore even if you name it like this, you can call it from outside
too. By the way if you're wondering what I mean with from outside,
well since this is now a normal HTML element, you can of course also select it with the document query selector
and then you can access its properties and call its methods, just like you can do it on any other HTML
element.
So with an underscore in front of this name though, I'm indicating that this is a method
you should not call.
You can still do it
and we can't stop that
but at least we're clear regarding our intention of how this component should be used
and if other developers are then using it or we are using it sometime in the future after we don't exactly
remember how we created it, then we know
ok this is a method which should only get called internally which we don't have to care about when we
work with our component from outside. So this showTooltip method is what I want to call,
so here I will call this showTooltip and important, I don't add parentheses because I don't want to
execute this method here,
I only save the pointer to this method and set this up as my event listener so that when the mouseenter
event occurs, then the browser can automatically execute showTooltip.
Now inside of showTooltip, I then want to create a tooltip element which I can display. For this, I'll create
a new constant and I'll name it tooltipContainer and with document create element, I'll create a
new element of type div, again using one of the built-in HTML elements.
If you have multiple custom elements, you can of course also create those
but here, I will build an element that only uses primitive, so only uses built-in elements. So I
create a div here and in that tooltipContainer, I can then set a text content of this is the tooltip text
which we'll make more generic and settable by the user later
and now of course it's all about attaching this container to the DOM and showing it there.
So for that again, I will access this, this referring to the tooltip element and now there's just one thing
to watch out for,
due to the way the this keyword works in javascript,
more about that if you can find in an article in a video attached to this lecture,
we need to call bind this here when we point at showTooltip. This ensures that the this keyword inside
of showTooltip always refers to this class. Now here I can append this child,
I can append my tooltipContainer,
the styling will be awful but it should work.
If we now save that and we reload the browser, if I now hover over this questionmark,
indeed we see this is the tooltip text.
Now it's not getting removed when I hover away though, you see that when I leave with the mouse, it's
still there and if I hover over it again, it adds more and more of these texts and
that makes a lot of sense because we never remove that
when we leave with the mouse. So I will duplicate my event listener up there
and besides mouseenter, I will also add mouseleave here and I will add a new private method,
hideTooltip which should in the end remove this tooltipContainer.
Now to access the tooltipContainer which I create in showTooltip and which therefore is not accessible from inside
hideTooltip,
I'll turn this from a constant in showTooltip into a property of the whole class. For this in the
constructor which is a great place for basic initializations,
I'll add a new property by using the this keyword and then dot and then the name of the property and a
property is basically just like a class-wide available variable and I will name that underscore to
also mark
that is only used from inside the class, _tooltipContainer. And I will not set an initial value,
so it's basically undefined initially
but then here in showTooltip, I will store this created div, not in this constant but in this
_tooltipContainer and that of course means that the places where I used tooltipContainer like this also
now have to become this _tooltipContainer.
The advantage of this approach is that the newly created div is now stored in a class property and unlike
the constant, this property is not just accessible from inside this method but from all the methods in
a class.
So now in hideTooltip, I can also access this tooltipContainer and remove that Node and for that,
I will actually access this remove child and I will remove that tooltipContainer
child.
Now when we leave this with the mouse, if we don't hover over the questionmark anymore,
this tooltipContainer which was added should be removed.
However, of course that also means that I now also need to hook hideTooltip up as a method that should be executed
for mouseleave.
Now with that, if I save that and we reload this page,
now when I hover over to questionmark, the tooltip still gets added
but if I now leave with the mouse, it's gone and now we have a tooltip that only shows up whilst we hover
over the questionmark.
Now obviously, styling is missing and the questionmark is still positioned incorrectly but this is
another great step forward and we can already see some custom logic doing its job in our web component
because you must never forget that this whole hovering logic and so on all happens inside of our web
component and that already means that if we copy that and we add another tooltip, so another instance
of this element somewhere else,
here we go.
Then there, we'll also have this questionmark over which we can hover, so we can easily reuse this functionality
already.
Of course it would be nice if we had more styling, more flexibility regarding our tooltip text and so
on.
So let's work on that tooltip text next
because having this generic dummy text here, this is the tooltip text does not make a lot of sense.
The text here should be settable from outside instead.
So let's take care about that in the next lecture.